AI semantic cache plugin (#581)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_kong_plugins/ai-semantic-cache/index.md

When a new request is made, the system can retrieve and reuse previously cached responses if they are contextually relevant, even if the phrasing is different. This method reduces redundant processing, speeds up response times, and ensures that answers are more relevant to the user’s intent, ultimately improving overall system performance and user experience. 

For example, if a user asks, "how to integrate our API with a mobile app" and later asks, "what are the steps for connecting our API to a smartphone application?", the system understands that both questions are asking for the same information. It can then retrieve and reuse previously cached responses, even if the wording is different. This approach reduces processing time and speeds up responses.

The AI Semantic Cache plugin may not be ideal if the following are true:

* You have limited hardware or budget. Storing semantic vectors and running similarity searches require a lot of storage and computing power, which could be an issue.

> * Your data doesn’t rely on semantics, or exact matches work fine, then semantic caching may offer little benefit. Traditional or keyword-based caching might be more efficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your data doesn’t rely on semantics, or exact matches work fine. In this case, semantic caching may offer little benefit. Traditional or keyword-based caching might be more efficient.
```

{% mermaid %}
sequenceDiagram
    participant {{site.base_gateway}}/AI Semantic Cache plugin
    participant Prompt/Chat LLM
    participant Vector database
    actor User

    {{site.base_gateway}}/AI Semantic Cache plugin->>Prompt/Chat LLM: Make LLM request
    Prompt/Chat LLM-->>{{site.base_gateway}}/AI Semantic Cache plugin: Receive response
    {{site.base_gateway}}/AI Semantic Cache plugin->>Vector database: Store vectors
    {{site.base_gateway}}/AI Semantic Cache plugin->>Vector database: Store response message options
    {{site.base_gateway}}/AI Semantic Cache plugin-->>User: Return realtime response
{% endmermaid %}

### Vector databases

A vector database can be used to store vector embeddings, or numerical representations, of data items. For example, a response would be converted to a numerical representation and stored in the vector database so that it can compare new requests against the stored vectors to find relevant cached items.

> Currently, the AI Semantic Cache plugin supports Redis as a vector database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AI Semantic Cache plugin supports Redis as a vector database.
```

### Cache management

With the AI Semantic Cache plugin, you can configure a cache of your choice to store the responses from the LLM.

> Currently, the AI Semantic Cache plugin supports Redis as a cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AI Semantic Cache plugin supports Redis as a cache.
```

#### Caching mechanisms

The AI Semantic Cache plugin improves how AI systems provide responses by using two kinds of caching mechanisms:

* **Exact Caching:** This stores precise, unaltered responses for specific queries. If a user asks the same question multiple times, the system can quickly retrieve the pre-stored response rather than generating it again each time. This speeds up response times and reduces computational load.
* **Semantic Caching:** This approach is more flexible and involves storing responses based on the meaning or intent behind the queries. Instead of relying on exact matches, the system can understand and reuse information that is conceptually similar. For instance, if a user asks about "Italian restaurants in New York City" and later about "New York City Italian cuisine," semantic caching can help provide relevant information based on their related meanings.

Together, these caching methods enhance the efficiency and relevance of AI responses, making interactions faster and more contextually accurate.

### Headers sent to the client

> When the AI Semantic Cache plugin is active, Kong sends additional headers 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the AI Semantic Cache plugin is active, {{site.base_gateway}} sends additional headers 
```
